# python-api-challenge

Uses OpenWeatherApi and Geoapify api. The Former to take city name data generated by citipy module to request weather data collected depending on day, then geoapify is used  to narrow down criterion to help select where would be ideal weather and thereby an ideal place to vacation or live


The data extracted from the Openweather api is saved to a csv file, then bound in a dataframe including, Maximum temperature, Latitude&Longitude, City,	Humidity, Cloudiness,	Wind Speed,	&Country.

In the Weatherpy Notebook, Latitude is compared to Maximum temperature, Humidity, Cloudiness,	and Wind Speed, then charted to a scatter plot to visualize those comparisons. 

Next, the latitude is sepatated into two data frames, one for the northern hemispere and the other for the southern, and a linear regression line is formulated to show whether any relationship between those aforementioned variables and Latitude is present within the two hemispheres ranging from closer to the equator(=0) to farther away (+ or - > 0).

In the Vacationpy notebook, the csv saved from the OpenaWeatherApi data in WeatherPy is used to narrow down best potential vacation locations and display them within  points of a map using the hvplot library in pandas. The criteria used was: the location must be within the range of latitudes between -50 to 40, that the Maximum temperature must be greater than or equal to 25°C(77°F), and that the cloudiness must be less than or equal to around 25%. 

Then using the Geoapify api, locations within 10000 meters of the longitudes and latitudes for each city derived from the Citipy module are searched for accomodations. This is not narrowed down to search for hotels only, but all accomodations, such as short term house rental services and hostels, also displayed in points within a map using hvplot library at the end of the notebook.


To run:
WeatherPy notebook requires matplotlib, pandas, numpy, requests, time, scipy, along with citipy library available using python pip. 
Also of course the OpenweatherApi key to access the current weather data if you would like to generate it yourself. If using the csv files, modifying the csv file will output an inaccurate date in the title of some of the scatter plots because it is used to calculate the time of data request.

Vacationpy notebook requires geoviews and hvplot libraries, as well as Geoapify api key if you would like to output current data.
